# Phase 2 Sprint 8 - PM Report 

### Team Information:

* Number: 32 
* Name: Jailbreak
* Mentor: Emir Veziroglu, env225@lehigh.edu
* Weekly live & synchronous meeting: 
    * without mentor: Thursday (10/24) @ 4:30 PM, Sunday (10/27) @3:00 PM and 8:00 PM
    * with mentor: Since it was a shorter sprint, we did not meet with Emir, but messaged him via Slack with our questions

### Team Roles:

* Project Manger: <Dean Clark, dmc227@lehigh.edu>
    * Changed with start of new phase (Phase 2)
* Backend developer: <Illia Slipchenko, ils226@lehigh.edu>
* Admin developer: <Liam Messinger, ljm426@lehigh.edu>
* Web developer: <Anaya Rawoot, adr325@lehigh.edu>
* Mobile developer: <Jared Cooper, jac327@lehigh.edu>

### Essential links for this project:

* Team's Dokku URL(s)
    * <https://team-jailbreak.dokku.cse.lehigh.edu>
* Team's software repo (bitbucket)
    * <https://bitbucket.org/sml3/cse216_fa24_team_32>
* Team's Jira board
    * <https://lehigh-team-drfppe9i.atlassian.net/jira/software/projects/TC/boards/2>


## General questions

1. Did the PM for this week submit this report (If not, why not?)? 
* Yes, I (Dean Clark) am submitting the PM report.
2. Has the team been gathering for a weekly, in-person meeting(s)? If not, why not?
* Yes, our group usually meets during our normal recitation time, which is Tuesday at 7:00 PM. 

3. Summarize how well the team met the requirements of this sprint.
 * For the most part, we met the requirements pretty well. Everyone did all of the parts they were assigned, and was an active member of what design choices were needed for their features. A lot of good starting work for the implement phase got done too for backend. The routes weren't overdesigned, and the state machines/ERDs were made so that everyone can look at it and intuitively see how everything will work. The unit tests were written and backlogs were added as well. 

4. Report on each member's progress (sprint and phase activity completion) – "what is the status?"
 * Dean (PM): He worked on the API routes, state machines, made tasks on Jira, and helped to make sure everyone was on track.
 * Illia (Backend): He has worked on OAuth with Google before, meaning that we should be pretty good, but he already started, and made the Google account and sent us over the details. For the design sprint, he worked on the ERD and did unit tests for backend.
 * Anaya (Frontend): She did the tutorials for React, so should be set for the coming week, and also did the Mock UI so she knows what must be added for a simple user page and upvotes/downvotes and comments. For this sprint, she made the mock UI and wrote unit test descriptions. 
 * Jared (Mobile): He went over Liam's documentation from the prior phase. He helped write unit test descriptions.
 * Liam (Admin): Started working on the features for this phase, and wrote the state machines so knows how to handle the upvote and downvotes on the table. I think he also created the new tables from the Lucid Chart ERDs. He updated the state machines, user stories, and wrote unit test descriptions for Admin.

5. Summary of "code review" during which each team member discussed and showed their progress – "how did you confirm the status?"

 * Since it is the design sprint in a new phase, we did not hold any formal code reviews. Group members went over the code on their own time and asked questions via Slack or referred to documentation to find what purpose each chunk refers to, and sees where specific code debt is.

6. What did you do to encourage the team to be working on phase activities "sooner rather than later"?
* To ensure that everyone was working through for more than just the day before or day of the recording, we held a meeting on Thursday where we went over the phase, divided up the work for creating/updating artifacts, and scheduled a time to record. This did not work fully, but I will be keeping better tabs during the implement sprint to make sure I can help everyone to progress forward. 

7. What did you do to encourage the team to help one another?
* I exude a positive attitude toward each of my team members, encouraging them and helping them through any technical issues. I message them encouraging words when there are issues, I offer as many solutions as I can, and empathize with them that this class is hard and that despite busy schedules we can get it all done. 

8. How well is the team communicating?
 * For the most part, the team has been communicating pretty well. We mostly are speaking about the project, I think I know a few small things about everyone and we talk about our extracirriculars for scheduling so we see a bit more than just business, but it is mostly professional since we are working on a project. Anaya was still having problems seeing notifications on Slack, but she responds to her texts, so we have mainly been communicating with her via texts.

9. Discuss expectations the team has set for one another, if any. Please highlight any changes from last week.
* For the most part, the expectations were already set up before I joined the group, since I was added 5 weeks in, but most of the rules and expectations were already set up. We meet 1-2 times a week, message for the most part daily in the Slack/texting if we have problems, and everyone is pretty respecful of times and commitments. I know in the beginning I sort of broke how late we wanted to submit our videos by doing so at 11:00 PM, but since then we have a good flow of submitting a few hours before at the latest. One of the only expectations I want to change is working more collaboratively on our separate portions, since I am PM and don't want to do nothing especially if I can help during a hard sprint. I don't have much experience with pair programming, but I feel like it could help us out a bit, especially if someone like myself during the beginning days of backend needs help understanding stuff. Besides that, we communicate well, get along well, and seemed to be getting everything done to a fairly high standard.  

10. If anything was especially challenging or unclear, please make sure this is [1] itemized, [2] briefly described, [3] its status reported (resolved or unresolved), and [4] includes critical steps taken to find resolution.
    * Challenge: Backlog
        * Status: unresolved
        * Description: The rest of the problems for functionality have been fixed for Phase 1, so the only thing we have is a slight backlog in documentation/tests/potential edge cases, but everything that we needed for Phase 1 should be done.
        * Critical steps taken to find resolution: Working with certain roles to eliminate tech debt and make a better project.


## Project Management
Self-evaluation of PM performance

0. When did your team meet with your mentor, and for how long?
 * Again, since it was a shorter sprint, we did not meet with Emir in person, only messaging him over Slack to ensure that we had all parts of the sprint. Especially since we were all up on all the documentation tools from the prior phase, we had relatively few problems. 

1. Describe your use of Jira.  Did you have too much detail?  Too little?  Just enough? Did you implement policies around its use (if so, what were they?)?
* I think we had a ticket for each artifact that we needed to update as well as backlog, so we didn't spend too much time on it (a lot of the tickets were made by me and moved around as I saw them finished), which was more than before, but was almost too much because personally I don't think we need too much on Jira, just enough so the PM and mentors/customers know what is going on.

2. How did you conduct team meetings?  How did your team interact outside of these meetings?
* In Zoom meetings, we start by waiting for everyone to join, then starting with a little recap of what we had to do and seeing if everyone is doing all good, need any help, are blocked, need to make a design decision, etc. Then, if we need to record a video, we do so. Outside meetings, we mostly stick to ourselves, but if we have questions about what we are doing, then we ask them. I will check up on everyone to make sure they are not struggling in silence.

3. What techniques (daily check-ins/scrums, team programming, timelines, Jira use, slack use, group design exercises) did you use to mitigate risk? Highlight any changes from last week.
* To mitigate risk, we had a meeting to plan everything out before. After this, I checked in on people over slack, made jira tickets for different roles so they could do their tasks on their own.

4. Describe any difficulties you faced in managing the interactions among your teammates. Were there any team issues that arose? If not, what do you believe is keeping thins so constructive?
* At first, we had a bit of a problem coming up with the ERD with the separate upvote and downvote entities being used, as well as some issues with the state diagrams' complexity. Each time, many design decisions were made by the team to come to a consensus on how the project would be done in the future of the phase.

5. What is your biggest concern as you think ahead to the next sprint?
* I think the biggest concern is getting users to work properly talking to the backend to the frontend/mobile since OAuth 2 is hard to implement. The best way to do it is to start out simple with its implementation and keep adding complexity until we can do it for our propsed API.

6. Describe the most significant obstacle or difficulty your team faced.
 * During the past sprint, the biggest issue arose with the new state machines and API routes matching up. For the sake of not overcomplicating and overdesigning, I tried to provide only the necessary routes for the backend developer, but I think for the most part we will be okay with these new routes and the JSON (or lack thereof) that will be sent. 

7. What might you suggest the team or the next PM "start", "stop", or "continue" doing in the next sprint?
    * I think we should start doing more formal code reviews to avoid merge conflicts and working together better on features if we have questions.
    * I think we should stop waiting until a later date if we have a question about design choices, and to ask them as soon as they come up. Even if clarification from the design documents is needed.
    * I think we should continue communicating well and keeping everyone up to date on our progress.

8. How well did you estimate time during the early part of the sprint? How did your time estimates change as the sprint progressed?
* Not very well for myself to be completely honest, I had a very bust weekend and put a lot of time in on Sunday because it was when I had a bulk of my time. For me, it won't change how I will go about the sprint, since I am PM and will try to be flexible going about my work. 

9. What aspects of the project would cause concern for your customer right now, if any?
* I think as of right now, we have all the functionality that we need, so there is no cause for concern. Going forward, we will need to OAuth for profiles for only Lehigh University students. Additionally, upvotes and downvotes as an integer needs to be implemented instead of likes, a profile page needs to exist, and a sign up/login button needs to be provided, which would be a cause for concern if we don't get working.